# msme1.	i am uplaoding data from TALLY IN DETAILED WHICH HAVE OPENING BALANCES, PURCHASE DURING THE YEAR, PAYMENT DURING THE YEAR AND CLOSING BALANCE. (for period 1st april to 31st march of financial year).  2. Deduct Credit of transactions from debit of transactions (credit means purchases and debit means payment , if result is positive we will go for calculation of 15/45 days (msme calcualtions), if balance is negative and zero ignore (MSME calculations not applicable) . IF result is positive ask to upload creditors summary from 15feb to 31st march of FY.
3.	MAIN POINT AS PER MSMED ACT CALCULATION OF 15/45 DAYS WOULD BE FROM ACCEPETANCE /DEEMED ACCEPTANCE OF GOODS OR SERVCES.                                                                                                      4.NOW CHECK WHETHER THERE IS ANY AGREEMENT BETWEEN SUPPLIER(MSME) AND BUYER.
 ask if there is any agrrement or not , if yes - as per agreement  number of days from that but cannot exceed 45 days (for eg. in agreement there is 30 days calacualtion will be of 30 days , if agrrement contains 50 days then we will take 45 days  which means exceed 45 days then take 45 days for calcualtion), if there is no agreement so go for 15 days .                                                                                               5. go to new sheet 15 feb to 31st march = deduct credit from debit = if result is positive , realted to previous year , if result is negative then some amount belong before 15 feb and some amount belong to after 15 feb, check if closing balance = opening balance , then this amount is disallowed in books for msme calculation  and if vice versa it is allowed.
4.	ACCEPTANCE MEANS THEY AGREED AND DEEMED ACCEPTANCE MEANS IF NO OBJECTION WITH IN 15 DAYS OF ACCEPTANCE.
5.	IT SHOULD ALSO BE TAKE CARE THAT THIS PROVISION IS APPLICABLE ON MSSME MANUFACTURER AND MSME SERICE PROVIDER NOT ON MSME TRADER.
6.	NOW AS WE KNOW ALMOST ALL BUSSINESSMAN FOLLOW FIFO METHOD. IT MEANS FIRST IN FIRST OUT.
